# D3-exploration-tool
This is my [first creation](http://students.washington.edu/csb206/INFO474/D3-exploration-tool/) of a chart in D3 using MLB team data. 

For my visual layout, using a scatterplot is an optimal choice for expressing this data because it effectively represents the relationship between team wins, season attendance and the payroll of each MLB organization. Labeling the y axis as season attendance in increments of 500,000 and the x axis as wins allows for an understandable perception of MLB team success. Each team is represented by a circle on the chart with a tooltip that allows the user to hover over the circle to view the team name. The color of each circle indicates what division the team belongs to, and the size of the circle indicates the amount of payroll for the team. There is a legend to clarify the division color, as well as the payroll amount. All of this quantitative data implies the viewer to ask several questions about a team's performance on any given year. 

The control I have enabled the user to change is time. Specifically, the display of data can be filtered by the year the user chooses. With the range of 34 years (1980 - 2014), there are several questions to ask based on the transitions among teams throughout the years. As the year changes, there are plenty of flunctations to examine in terms of the attendance, wins and payroll for all the teams in the MLB. A specific change that I have noticed from history is the difference in payroll and team wins. In 1980, there is a wider range of team wins and the payroll is much less with all team less than $10 million in payroll. Thirty years later, the team wins have been closer together (more competitive) and the payroll has jumped through the roof. The organizations with the most money usually have a couple hundred million dollars, which is alot different from the 10 million years before. 

It is also interesting to find anomalies within the data; in 2001 the Seattle Mariners had an average payroll relative to other teams, but won the most games in that season by a wide margin. This shows that sometimes even the most paid and talented teams arent the most successful. In 1994, the highest winning team only had around 75 wins. This is amazing considering the next year that honor belonged to a team that won more than 100 games. Outliers like the San Diego Padres in 1993 had the 4th lowest win total for the season, but still brought the most amount of people to the ballpark that year. As you can see, there are so many questions to ask and it is up to you to try and understand what the implications are. 
